# Predicting-Fraud-With-Tensorflow

# **Problem Statement and Project Background**

**A)** The use of credit card is increasing nowdays and with that the fraud associated with the credit card transactions are also on the rise. Australians lost almost half a billion dollars in credit card frauds in a single year. It is therefore important that the institutions offering the credit card be able to recognize fraudulent credit card transactions. With the availability of huge amount of data and exponential growth in computing power, techniques like Deep Learning to learn the patterns from data can be used to build a solution to identify fraudulent transaction.

**B)** Any deep learning model requires huge data and the data used in this project entry is from kaggle.

**C)** The dataset consists of credit card transactions in September 2013 by European cardholders. This dataset contains transactions carried over a period of 2 days and out of 284807 total transactions, 492 are marked as fraudulent. As is clear from this statistics the dataset is highly unbalanced : positive class (fraudulent) is only 0.172 %. Although this aspect of the data distribution in this case has already been mentioned by the publisher, as an AI developer, embarking on modelling a problem like this (classification), studying the data distribution is one of the key exercises to understand your data. The dataset has been anonymised and many attributes (features) have been removed. Features (attributes) have been labelled as V1, V2,..and only numerical data is included (neural nets work on numbers !). When faced with a dataset and dataset having lots of attributes/features, one of the important data preparation steps is to keep only those features which can influence the model. Deciding on which features to keep has evolved into its own area of study called ‘feature engineering’. One of the techniques to find out which features are important is called PCA — Principal Component Analysis. From the description of the dataset, it is clear that PCA has already been done, so we need not worry about that ! Only features not transformed with PCA are ‘Time’ and ‘Amount’ . ‘Time’ contains the seconds elapsed between each transaction and the first transaction in the dataset. The feature ‘Amount’ is the transaction Amount, this feature can be used for example-dependant cost-senstive learning. Feature ‘Class’ is the response variable and it takes value 1 in case of fraud and 0 otherwise.
